---
layout: post
title: Weekly update
date:  2021-07-04 12:00:00 +0900
categories: [DEV, GSOC_2021]
tags: [gsoc_2021, xfce]
---

## Safety flag
Related: [Thunar !121](https://gitlab.xfce.org/xfce/thunar/-/merge_requests/121)

Coding safety flag interface is done, but since it requires new version of libxfce4util, it is waiting for docker image to be updated.

## Keep metadata when copying from remote location
Related: [Thunar !127](https://gitlab.xfce.org/xfce/thunar/-/merge_requests/127)

Thunar loses some metadata on copy when file source is from remote location like ftp://. Right now, I am working on what metadata should be copied in that case.

## Use proper name to copy files
Related: [Thunar !128](https://gitlab.xfce.org/xfce/thunar/-/merge_requests/128)

gvfs-gdrive extension provides a neat way to use Google Drive as a network drive, but copied files got an unintelligible name for some reason. So I am patching up the logic to move the files into a readable name.

## Safe copy
Related: [Thunar !130](https://gitlab.xfce.org/xfce/thunar/-/merge_requests/130)

This MR will add a feature to separate copy-in-progrss files and already copied files in case something aborts the copy, so "skip all existing files" on the second try can guarantee that every file is copied properly. Without this feature, the user has to copy every file again or somehow find which one is a corrupted file (which is like finding a needle in haystack).

It also will optional feature to check every file copied that it is not corrupted - probably for network drives.

Right now only the first part is done - every files copied will be first named as `*.partial~` (which is hidden) and be renamed after copy.